<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<meta name="generator" content="created by troff2xhtml5 on Thu Sep  1 10:30:12 BST 2016"/>
<link rel="meta" type="application/rdf+xml" href="rdf.xml" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css"/>
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0"/>
<style type="text/css"> dt {margin-left: 1em} dd {margin-left: 2em} </style>
<title>&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;F28WP Coursework I - Edinburgh Campus</title>
<script type="text/javascript" src="http://www.macs.hw.ac.uk/~hamish/resize.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<p class="title">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;F28WP Coursework I - Edinburgh Campus</p>
<p>
A product ordering web service should be developed that lets users browse
through product information and decide which and how many of these products
they wish to order. It should support the recording of their order in a
web form along with user and delivery details. On submission order
information should be delivered to a web server and recorded in a file
and the order displayed back to users in a confirmation web page. The
assignment should be done jointly in pairs.
</p>
<p>
Students on the Edinburgh campus who are unable to find a partner may
contact Hamish Taylor by e-mail (<em>H.Taylor@hw.ac.uk</em>) for assistance
in finding a partner.
</p>
<p>
The following Web technologies should be used:
</p>
<ul class="points">
<li> HTML 5 (XHTML syntax), CSS 3, DOM 1+ and JavaScript
</li>
<li> web server programs in JavaScript or Java
</li>
</ul>
<p>
All client side programs must be written in JavaScript and server side
programs written in Java, JavaScript or JSP. The use of JavaScript libraries
like JScript and web frameworks/templates like AngularJS, Bootstrap,
React.js, Sails.js etc. is not permitted. However, JSP, Servlets and utility
modules for Node.js like Express.js are permitted. HTML must be written
in the XHTML serialisation of HTML 5 and include some elements specific
to HTML 5. CSS must be supplied in a stylesheet file linked into each web
page and include some features specific to CSS 3. The final report must
contain a URL of working web pages for the product ordering system and
be accessible within Heriot-Watt University. The web pages must continue to
be available at that URL for 3 weeks after the final submission date.
</p>
<p>
The product ordering service may be hosted on departmental web
servers like the Apache and Tomcat servers on ports 80 and 8080 of
<em>anubis.macs.hw.ac.uk</em> that are guaranteed to be running 24/7. Or it
may be hosted on web servers like Node.js or Jetty that are set up ad hoc
to run i.e. aren't guaranteed to continue running all the time. However,
in the latter case it must be feasible for the coursework assessor to
restart the web server component in order to test the product ordering
service if it has ceased to run. Clear instructions must be given with
the submitted coursework on how to run such a web server component and
suitable access permissions must be set so that the assessor can do so.
</p>
<p>
The listing of the sources for the system should be accompanied by a
5 page joint report that includes:
</p>
<div class="offset">
<dl>
<dt>&#9830;</dt>
<dd>
A statement of how the task was divided between the pair. 
          <p/>
</dd>
<dt>&#9830;</dt>
<dd>
A description of the application, the reasons for any design decisions,
and the public http URL where the system is deployed (including server
start up details where needed).
          <p/>
</dd>
<dt>&#9830;</dt>
<dd>
A brief statement of what specifically HTML 5 and CSS 3 elements are
included.
          <p/>
</dd>
<dt>&#9830;</dt>
<dd>
A brief discussion of the strengths and weaknesses/deficiencies of the
system, and what could be done to improve it given more time. 
          <p/>
</dd>
<dt>&#9830;</dt>
<dd>
A brief discussion of the testing of the system, stating what was
done to provide assurance that the various parts of the system worked
correctly. 
</dd>
</dl>
</div>
<p>
Listings of the JavaScript, web server programs, XHTML 5 and CSS 3 should
include authors' names.
</p>
<h3>
The front end.
</h3>
<p>
The front end should be web pages that detail products of the developers'
own choice. They should let users enter their contact and delivery details
and select products in a web form. There should be links available from each
product's name allowing the user to look at a more detailed description
of that product including its cost.  Some general information about the
supplier, delivery and handling etc. should also be provided. Use of a
good range of different types of form controls is expected.
</p>
<p>
A common CSS stylesheet should be used to give a consistent appearance
to elements. JavaScript code or form validation attributes should ensure
that the user enters their name and address and makes coherent product
choices before being allowed to submit the form. JavaScript should NOT
use any libraries such as JQuery. JavaScript should interact with web page
elements and events in a standard DOM 1+ compliant manner.
</p>
<p>
The web pages of the application should validate as correct XHTML 5
and CSS 3 using the W3C validation services. Validation links should be
embedded in each web page to make this checking convenient.
</p>
<p>
While students may use cookies or web storage if they choose, their use
is not required in order to complete this assignment. Any use of cookies
or web storage should comply with UK law i.e. require consent where needed.
</p>
<h3>
Server Side
</h3>
<p>
Product selections on the web site should be recorded in a file including
the name, address and email address of the user, the list of products
ordered, and the total cost of the products. The user should be supplied
with a confirmation page which lists their order, total cost, name, email
and delivery address.
</p>
<h3>
Marks
</h3>
<p>
Marks for this assignment are worth up to 25% of the overall course
mark. Marks will be awarded for XHTML 5, CSS 3, JavaScript, DOM 1+ and
server side programs in Java or JavaScript. They will take into account
conformity to the specification and W3C standards and how well and to
what level it was achieved in the report writing, the programs produced,
the test cases illustrated and the overall scope of what was essayed. High
marks (70%+) will only be awarded to those who have successfully attempted
something reasonably challenging and written it up appropriately.
</p>
<h3>
Date Due
</h3>
<p>
The coursework is due for Edinburgh campus students by Friday
28th October 2016. It should be submitted digitally through Vision as
a single PDF file (report + code listing). Separate PDFs for report and
code can be stitched together using the Linux utility pdftk or the Windows
utility PDFArchitect from PDFCreator. A separate submission is required
from each student in a pair even though it is a common joint coursework.
E-mail or hard copy submissions of the coursework are NOT acceptable. Late
coursework will be penalised at the standard school rate unless explicit
permission to submit late is sought and granted before the due submission
date and time. Permission to submit late will not be given without manifest
good reasons. This coursework is worth 25% of the overall course mark.
</p>
<p>
Hamish Taylor - <em>H.Taylor@hw.ac.uk</em>
</p>
<hr/>
<div class="leftfoot">&#169; <a href="http://www.macs.hw.ac.uk/~hamish/">Hamish Taylor</a> 2016</div>
<div class="rightfoot"><a onclick='window.location="http://validator.w3.org/check?uri=" + document.location.href;'>XHTML 5</a></div>
</body>
</html>
